From an early young age, I like to organize and lead a team. In my boyhood, I lead many sports teams, clubs, and scouts units. In my career, I also work in a managerial position where I lead a technical team. Through this leadership experience, I learned that decision-making is key and vital to successful leadership. A good decision brings the long run good result. I am always passionate to learn new things and get the best skill that can help me to take a good decisions. In my pathfinding road, I discover the world of data science where the fundamental target is to take good decisions based on data and minimize uncertainty. This field amaze me, so I felt a love in data science, the data-driven decision-making process. I start a study on this field with a structural way.
This enthusiasm lead me to admit a Master's in science in Applied statistics and data science, from Jahangirnogar, Bangladesh one of the leading universities in the country. The main focus of this program is statistical analysis, Data mining, big data, machine learning, operational research, time series and data science toolbox like python, and R. I learn basic and applied knowledge from this program. Besides this MS program, I am continuing my self-study to develop my skill from online MOOCs and projects. I also complete the google Data analytics professional certification. Now I have a satisfactory level of knowledge and skill in statistical analysis, data literacy, machine learning algorithm, data analysis, and modeling. Data science has been the focus of my academic and professional life now. 

Now I decide to extend my knowledge and engage in research work, so I like to apply to the Doctoral program at Calgary university in the field of decision-making under uncertainty, data-driven modeling in climate change, and manufacturing under Dr. Mustafa Mohamad.

--- is my lifelong moto from my childhood. I found this inspiration from my beloved father who also a professor and have Ph.D. in chemistry. His chemistry lab is the most attractive place for me at that time. I like to question to him and he shows me the path of collecting knowledge. I always have curiosity around me and the logic behind them. When I was a boy I like to read scientific books rather than play or saw any friction. This passion drove me to be admitted in engineering.

I take Mechanical Engineering in my undergraduate program at Khulna university of engineering and technology. Where the main focus is on a good combination of mechanical system, thermal, fluid, static mechanics, CAD, CAE, statistics, manufacturing processes, management, theory of machine, machine design, and economics. 

During this under graduation, grew my interest in computer programming and computational analysis. I learn C, python, and FORTRAN. 
I try to apply this skill to solve various types of engineering computational problems.  I attend  Universityprogramming contest where I won the 2nd prize. I also participate in a Project contest and won 1st prize by giving a project idea of 'Windbelt' -a micro wind energy harvesting device. I also attend numerous seminars and training sessions before and after my graduation to learn new skills and gather information. 

After completing my graduation in mechanical engineering I start working in a manufacturing company where I work as a production engineer. I planned production and materials. 

Now I am working as a senior R&D engineer in the largest electronics company(Walton Hi-tech Industries PLC) in Bangladesh. My area is the find and applying new manufacturing techniques and data analysis.  
In my current career, I study, inspect, and trial the new manufacturing process for Metal and plastic hardware for electronic devices.  I analyze the production fault data, after-sales fault data, and reliability data to find the root cause of the fault, preparing data analysis models for data-driven decision-making for products. To develop product quality and reliability and develop optimize manufacturing process I also visit many machine manufacturing facilities at home and abroad to observe and learn from them.
In our R&D department, I also work with research work on "Corrosion reduction on electronics device to get more reliable product" joint team made up of the chemist, metallurgical engineer, and electronics engineer. 

From the academy to working experience, in the journey of eleven years, I learn and earn mixed experience in manufacturing, project management, materials, and decision-making technique. By working three largest manufacturing industries as an engineer, I am skilled in various techniques like CNC programming, Coating technology, Sheet metal fabrication, CAD, CAE, and Arduino.

Along with working, I love to conduct research. I get first research experience during my BE where I worked on micro wind energy harvesting devices in my final year thesis. In my MSc, I also complete a research thesis under Prof. Dr. Muzibur Rahman, on the "Forecasting model of sales of Television in the Bangladesh market" by using real data from my working industry. In this research project, I build a forecasting model by using statistical analysis, Classical Machine learning algorithms, and Artificial neural networks. I use those algorithms to build the model separately and the hybrid model to compare their performance. 

I am also working on one research project  With Dr. Niamat Ullah, on warranty structure analysis of electronic devices where we analyze the sales data and manufacturing data to build a data model for warranty period calculation. 
Besides this, I like to work on DIY projects. I build a tabletop CNC routing machine with the learning of an electr-machanical controlling system. I also believe in knowledge sharing. I wrote some technical blogs and make videos to share my experience. 
All of my activities and interest will help to make a decision toward the next level.

Now I am eager to pursue a Doctoral program in the interdisciplinary topics of manufacturing and data science.  To research the complex interdisciplinary system I can face the various challenge in the era of industry 4.0. I want to adopt such modest skills and technologies of the world which can improve the decision-making process in our country and world community.

I carefully read the Doctoral program offer from the University of Cargary research team under Dr. Mustafa Mohamad. I read the list of his work and publication also. I  found the match with my research interest and industry experience. I have a dream to work in a research team at a world-leading university like the University of Cargary, with its world-class faculty, pre-eminent resources, exceptional peer, and highest research facility. I assume this environment will be beneficial for the smooth propelling of my career. 
A country like Canada is one of the most livable and progressive countries. I shine in scientific and technological innovation and social stability. So if I get a chance to admit this Doctoral program it will be my dream come true. I have enough hard working experience and work with versatile culture people. 

With my academic background, working experience, research experience, and intensive dedication for creating new knowledge, I strongly believe that I can contribute to the research group under the Doctoral program of the University of Cargary. 


