**Statement of Purpose**

I've always enjoyed organizing and leading groups. Throughout my childhood, I was the captain of numerous sports teams, clubs, and scout units. In my career, I also work in a managerial position where I lead a technical team. Through this leadership experience, I learned that decision-making is key and vital to successful leadership. A good decision leads to a good outcome in the long run. I am always eager to learn new things and improve my skills so that I can make sound decisions. In my pathfinding, I have discovered the world of data science, where the fundamental target is to take good decisions based on data and minimize uncertainty. This field amazes me, so I fell in love with data science and the data-driven decision-making process. I began a structured journey in this field.  

This enthusiasm led me to earn a Master's in Science in Applied Statistics and Data Science from Jahangirnagar University, one of the leading universities in Bangladesh. The main focus of this program was statistical analysis, data mining, big data, machine learning, operational research, time series, and data science toolboxes like Python and R. I have learned basic and applied knowledge from this program. Besides this MS program, I am continuing my self-study to develop my skills through online MOOCs and projects. I also completed the Google Data Analytics Professional Certification. Now I have a satisfactory level of knowledge and skill in statistical analysis, data literacy, machine learning algorithms, data analysis, and modeling. I began to see the big picture: the success of any organization or business would be based on its ability to harness and react to data. So my academic and professional career is now centered on data science.

Now I have decided to extend my knowledge and engage in research work, so I would like to apply to the doctoral program at Calgary University in the fields of decision-making under uncertainty, data-driven modeling in climate change, and manufacturing under the supervision of Dr. Mustafa Mohamad.

**"Acquire knowledge and impart it to the people"** is my lifelong motto from my childhood. I found this inspiration from my beloved father, who is also a professor and has a Ph.D. in chemistry. His chemistry lab was the most attractive place for me at that time. I like to pose questions to him, and he shows me the path to collecting knowledge. I'm always intrigued by the logic behind my curiosity. When I was a boy, I liked to read scientific books rather than play or see any friction. This passion drove me to be admitted to engineering school.

I take mechanical engineering in my undergraduate program at Khulna University of Engineering and Technology, where the main focus is on a good combination of mechanical systems, thermal and fluid mechanics, static mechanics, CAD, CAE, statistics, manufacturing processes, management, machine theory, machine design, and economics. During this undergrad, my interest in computer programming and computational analysis grew. I learn C, Python, and FORTRAN.  I try to apply this skill to solve various types of engineering and computational problems. I attended a university programming contest where I won the second prize. I also participated in a project contest and won first prize by submitting the idea of "Wind Belt," a micro-wind energy harvesting device. I also attended numerous seminars and training sessions before and after my graduation to learn new skills and gather information.

After finishing my mechanical engineering degree, I began working as a production engineer for a manufacturing company. I planned production and materials. Now I work as a senior R&D engineer for Bangladesh's largest electronics company (Walton Hi-tech Industries PLC). My area of expertise is finding and applying new manufacturing techniques and data analysis.  

In my current career, I study, inspect, and test the new manufacturing process for metal and plastic hardware for electronic devices. I analyze the production fault data, after-sales fault data, and reliability data to find the root cause of the fault, preparing data analysis models for data-driven decision-making for products. To develop product quality and reliability and optimize the manufacturing process, I also visit many machine manufacturing facilities and take training at home and abroad to observe and learn from them.  In our R&D department, I also work on research on "Corrosion reduction on electronics devices to get a more reliable product" with a joint team made up of the chemist, metallurgical engineer, and electronics engineer.

In the eleven-year journey from the academy to the workplace, I have learned and gained mixed experience in manufacturing, project management, materials, and decision-making techniques. By working in the three largest manufacturing industries as an engineer, I am skilled in various techniques like CNC programming, coating technology, sheet metal fabrication, CAD, CAE, and Arduino.

Along with working, I love to conduct research. I got my first research experience during my BE, where I worked on micro-wind energy harvesting devices for my final year thesis. In my MSc, I also completed a research thesis under Prof. Dr. Mohd. Muzibur Rahman, on the "Forecasting model of sales of Television in the Bangladesh market" by using real data from my working industry. In this research project, I build a forecasting model by using statistical analysis, classical machine learning algorithms, and artificial neural networks. I use those algorithms separately to build the model and use a hybrid algorithm model to compare their performance.

I am also working on a research project on the warranty structure analysis of electronic devices, where we analyze the sales data and manufacturing data to build a data model for warranty period calculation. Besides this, I like to work on DIY projects. I built a tabletop CNC routing machine with the help of an electrical-mechanical controlling system. I also believe in sharing knowledge. I wrote some technical blogs and made videos to share my experience.  All of my activities and interests will help me make a decision about the next level.

Now I am eager to pursue a doctoral program in the interdisciplinary topics of manufacturing and data science. I can research the complex interdisciplinary system and face the various challenges in the era of Industry 4.0. I want to adopt such modest skills and technologies that can improve the decision-making process in our country and the global community.

I carefully read the doctoral program offer from the University of Calgary research team under Dr. Mustafa Mohamad. By reading the list of his work and publications, I discovered a match between my research interests and industry experience. I have a dream to work on a research team at a world-leading university like the University of Calgary, with its world-class faculty, preeminent resources, exceptional peers, and highest research facility. I assume this environment will be beneficial for the smooth progression of my career.  

A country like Canada is one of the most livable and progressive countries. It shines in scientific and technological innovation and social stability. So if I get a chance to enter this doctoral program, it will be my dream come true. I have sufficient hard-working experience and have worked with people from various cultures.

With my academic background, work experience, research experience, and intensive dedication to creating new knowledge, I strongly believe that I can contribute to the research group under the Doctoral program of the University of Calgary.